{"Title":"Under a thousand: Audiophile level sound at a crazy price","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/tech-reviews/headphone-zone-x-fiio-jd1-review-9367471/","Content":"Mention “audiophile quality sound” and it is a fair chance that most people will think that you are talking of cutting-edge audio equipment that delivers sound in its purest form. And of course, costs a bomb. So imagine our surprise when we came across a pair of earphones that deliver close to audiophile sound at a price that is only slightly north of a thousand (and can even dip under it, if you collect enough points and get the right offers).The Headphone Zone X Fiio JD1 in ear monitors (IEMs) are basically wired earbuds that are designed for those who want to hear sound at its purest, unadulterated best. It is great for audiophiles, especially those who are taking their first steps in this field and want to discover that there is more to audio than the bass flavour – whether it is light or deep – that is seen on so many mainstream earphones, headphones and TWS. They come from two very respected names in the audio business – Headphone Zone, and Fiio – and come with a remarkably affordable price tag of just Rs 1499. That’s just a touch above our under a thousand mark, but take it from us, the extra bucks are worth it.That is because the Headphone Zone X Fiio JD1 not only deliver stunning audio quality but also do not look inexpensive from any angle. In fact, they look better than many earphone that come with price tags of Rs 5,000. There is no plastic used in the buds themselves, which come separate from the cable and have to be attached to it. The buds have liquid die-cast zinc alloy faceplates and come with a hand-polished magnesium alloy construction, as well as a aluminium sound nozzle. The inner part of the buds are slightly transparent, giving them a rather unique look and you get three good quality eartips in the box. The cable connecting the buds is made of high-quality oxygen-free copper (OFC) and has a transparent look, with black and red wiring underneath. It also has good connectors that fit snugly into the buds, ruling out any sound leakage, and a 3.5 mm audio jack at the other end. There is also a three button inline control capsule with a mic on the cable, letting you control audio levels and even handle calls, if need be. It is a very premium looking set up, although the cable is a little on the long side and can get tangled.The JD1 are designed mainly for working with smartphones, tablets and notebooks that have 3.5 mm audio jacks. There is also a Type-C variant that has a DAC inbuilt, although that comes with a slightly higher price tag. The big challenge for many audiophiles will be getting smartphones and tablets that have 3.5 mm audio ports – even the budget Redmi Pad and the OnePlus Pad Go do not have them, and support for the port is disappearing gradually even from mid-segment smartphones.Unbelievably good sound at the price (bring the 3.5 mm port back!)\nPlug these IEMs into a smartphone or notebook, loop the wire close to the buds over your ear properly to get a proper snug and stable fit, and you are likely to be stunned at the quality of sound that will flood into your ears. The JD1 come with 10mm dynamic drivers, and unlike some audiophile IEMs that tend to sound a little dull, these have a slightly V-shaped sound signature with very good bass and treble, almost what some would call a V-shaped sound. In fact, those not used to hearing sound of this quality might find the treble (sharp sounds like violins and some guitars) a little uncomfortable, especially as the IEMs deliver terrific volumes, but a few adjustments on the audio source’s equaliser should fix matters. The presence of an external DAC does considerably improve their performance especially with smartphones (although our Redmi Note 13 Pro worked very well with them), but even without it, they delivered outstanding sound.The JD1 do not deliver the sort of rumbling bass that is the rage in the mainstream segment, but their clarity is exceptional, making them great for listening to classical music, rock, jazz and even pop, as well as watching films and listening to podcasts. Bass sound just right, with a bit of vibration without overwhelming vocals and treble, although mids (vocals) can get a little lost between bass and treble, but again nothing that a little equaliser tweaking cannot cure. The JD1 are actually terrific for playing games too – the wired connection means there is no latency and the fantastic audio quality of the IEMs means that you can literally hear every creak of a door and every footstep. Stealth gamers are going to love this, although we would advise PUBG and COD players to turn down the volumes as some of the shots can sound really sharp. If you are looking for some Zen, simply plug these in and play Alto’s Odyssey – the effect is hypnotic. In fact, using the Headphone Zone X Fiio JD1 made us wish phones and tablet manufacturers would start putting 3.5 mm ports back on devices.At Rs 1499 (and sometimes even lower, if you watch the prices and offer), these are staggering value for money for anyone wanting audiophile level audio on a tight budget. Headphone Zone and Fiio just proved that those two terms can co-exist!"}
{"Title":"Beat the heat: 10 tips to keep your phone cool this scorching summer","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/techook/1-tips-to-keep-your-phone-cool-in-summer-9367185/","Content":"With Indian summers reaching an all-time high, it’s not just you feeling the heat but your smartphone too. Prolonged exposure to heat can degrade your phone’s battery, throttle its performance, and cause it to lag or stutter. If your smartphone is getting too hot, here are some tips and tricks to help you keep it cool.This is unavoidable sometimes, but try to avoid using your phone for long periods in direct sunlight, as it can quickly overheat. If your work requires you to use your phone in the sun, reduce the brightness slightly or use it in the shade.Most modern smartphones can charge from 0 to 100 per cent in under an hour, with some achieving this in just a couple of minutes. While fast charging is convenient, it also generates a lot of heat. If your phone is getting hot during charging, try removing the back cover to help dissipate the heat and reduce the temperature to manageable levels.Smartphones can heat up significantly when playing video games for extended periods, especially outdoors or in hot rooms. To prevent overheating and extend your phone's lifespan, play games indoors or in air-conditioned rooms.New phones can reach incredibly high brightness levels, with some flagship devices offering up to 6,000 nits brightness. However, this high brightness can quickly raise your phone's temperature. While some phones automatically adjust display brightness to prevent overheating, if your phone is still getting hot, manually reduce the screen brightness to keep it cool.Many of us place our phones on the car's dashboard and use apps like Google Maps to navigate. However, with phones exposed to direct sunlight and navigation apps using sensors like Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and GPS, your phone can heat up significantly. To avoid this, place your phone next to the AC vent when driving or keep it in a bag or pocket while riding your bike.This may not be a tech tip, but if your device is overheating to the point of lagging and stuttering, simply setting it aside and not using it for a few minutes can help cool it down to its normal operating temperature.Most smartphones, including Android and iPhones, can be charged easily using a single charger. However, using a different charger than the one that came with your phone may cause it to heat up. To prevent this, try using the officially supported charger for your phone when charging.Your phone might heat up even when idle due to background apps constantly checking for updates or sending notifications. If you don't need updates from unused apps, try disabling notifications for them. This can reduce background processes and lower the device's temperature.Leaving your phone in a shut parked car, much like leaving children or pets inside, under direct sunlight, can be disastrous. Since the interior of a car can get pretty hot real quick, your phone will get heated even if it's on standby.Keeping your phone in your pocket is convenient, but it can cause it to operate warmer than ideal due to minimal air circulation. This effect is exacerbated on hot days. To prevent overheating, take your phone out of your pocket and keep it in an open area whenever possible."}
{"Title":"iTel Unicorn smartwatch: A timepiece for your neck?","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/tech-reviews/itel-unicorn-smartwatch-review-9367364/","Content":"After the first few years when it kept adding new features, smartwatches have started getting a bit boring. Innovation has plateaued and no company is able to offer something new. This is why I uncharacteristically decided to review a smartwatch, one which offers an entirely new way to use a wearable. The iTel Unicorn is a regular smartwatch if you wear it on your wrist. But then, it can become a pendant too and hang from your neck in what is clearly out of the box thinking from the company.While reviewing this smartwatch, I had one singular idea in mind: check out this pendant mode. As soon as I unboxed the smartwatch, I tried to figure how that works. It’s actually very easy. All you need to do is remove the clips on which the leather straps of the watch are attached and replace it with another that lets you loop a golden-looking chain. After this, the Unicorn starts looking like a large locket or, even better, a pocket watch.Set up is easy. You need the OnWear Pro app for this. It lets you connect the watch to an Android phone and feed in your age and other measures needed for it to start working. This is not working of Google WearOS but has all the expected features from activity to heart rate, sleep and stress tracking.Interestingly, there is no pendant mode as such, which is surprising given that this is touted as the USP of the device. All you get is a white rose watch face which looks decent when you wear this as a pendant. The other watch faces will look off when they are hanging from your neck and lead to awkward situations if others try to read the time or your step data by starting at the pendant.Using the Unicorn as a pendant is indeed an interesting concept but one I really cannot find a solid reason for. To start with, it is a bit awkward if you have to hold the pendant hanging from your neck to check the time or see some data. And since there is no pendant mode, this means you are seeing stuff upside down. The alternative is to wear the watch face upside down so that you can read it straight. A bit confusing for sure.There is one more issue using this as a pendant: you can’t check the heart rate and other data that needs the device to touch your body. I have a feeling the swaying of the pendant also throws the step data off a bit, but we can live with that.The good thing though is that you don’t need to use the pendant mode. It certainly does not make sense for most men. However, I figured that using the Unicorn as a pocket watch made more style sense for men, especially since you can fit this into the coin pocket on your jeans, which by the way, was originally designed to hold pocket watches.As a smartwatch, the iTel Unicorn does a decent job and ticks all the boxes. It has a good vibrant display and build quality with a crown, and a small button above it. In the box is a leather-like strap which can be replaced with others. For charging, however, you need a special dongle which I am not a fan of. The battery life is good and can last you a few days on a full charge. One thing to keep in mind is that some users might find this a bit heavy for a watch on the wrist.At Rs 7,999, the iTel Unicorn is a smartwatch that can fascinate those who want to stand out in the crowd. And frankly, this is an interesting attempt to take the smartwatch beyond your wrist. Whether this makes sense only time will tell."}
{"Title":"Sightful Spacetop G1: This laptop comes with AR glasses instead of a screen","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/laptops/sightful-spacetop-g1-this-laptop-comes-with-ar-glasses-instead-of-a-screen-9367041/","Content":"The latest offering from an Israeli company called Sightful––a laptop that comes with an Augmented Reality (AR) glass instead of a screen––is making rounds on the Internet.Called ‘AR laptop for work’, the Sightful Spacetop G1 uses connected glasses that project a 100-inch screen that can either be used to open a single monitor or split into multiple workspaces. The laptop also has USB-C ports to connect external devices like monitors.The AR glasses feature two OLED screens, with a resolution of 1080p for each eye, and a 90Hz refresh rate. On the hardware front, the Sightful Spacetop G1 is powered by the Qualcomm Snapdragon QCS8550 chipset and comes with 16GB RAM and 128GB of internal storage.The device may not be powerful enough for gaming and resource-intensive tasks, but the hardware should be enough for everyday tasks like web browsing, sending emails, giving presentations, and editing spreadsheets. The AR glasses also have a built-in microphone and speakers so you can easily participate in meetings on the go.While the Spacetop G1 may not be as advanced as the Apple Vision Pro or the Meta Quest 3, Sightful is not positioning it as a competitor to these standalone AR headsets. Instead, the company is marketing the Spacetop G1 as a laptop replacement designed for productivity in crowded spaces, such as on a plane.Sightful says users will also be offered custom prescription lenses if they happen to wear eyeglasses. The Spacetop G1 is currently available for pre-order with a $100 refundable deposit. It is priced at $1,900 but Sightful is offering a $200 discount for early adopters. This brings the price down to $1,700. The company says the new screenless AR laptop will start shipping sometime this October."}
{"Title":"Samsung support page hints at Galaxy Watch FE: Here’s what we know so far","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/gadgets/samsung-galaxy-watch-fe-specs-model-number-support-page-9366992/","Content":"Samsung seems to be gearing up to launch several new wearables at the upcoming ‘Unpacked’ event, scheduled to take place in Paris on July 10. Rumours suggest the South Korean tech giant plans to unveil the Galaxy Watch 7 Ultra, and now, a new support page on the Samsung UK and Latin America websites hints at a new, affordable Galaxy Watch.According to the support page, the upcoming Galaxy Watch will have the model “SM-R861”, but does not reveal any other details about the specifications and features. For the uninitiated, the Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 has the model number SM-R860.Speculation is that it might be named the “Galaxy Watch FE,” with a previously spotted FCC listing revealing support for 5W wireless charging, like the Galaxy Watch 4. It remains unclear if it will be called the Galaxy Watch 4 (2024) or Galaxy Watch FE, but it is expected to offer similar specs and features to the original Galaxy Watch 4.To recap, the Galaxy Watch 4, powered by the Exynos W920 chipset, features a 1.4-inch AMOLED screen, 2GB RAM, and 16GB storage, and is priced at Rs 10,999 on Amazon.Apart from the Galaxy Watch FE, Samsung is also reportedly working on the Galaxy Watch 7 Ultra, said to come with an extra third button and have a squarish bezel instead of the circular design we are used to.The company recently also confirmed that it is bringing several new AI-powered health tracking features like Energy Score and Wellness Tips to the Galaxy Watch series."}
{"Title":"I am no audiophile, but I tried Sony’s new ULT Wear headphones","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/tech-reviews/sony-ult-wear-review-9366869/","Content":"I am neither an audiophile nor finicky about headphones. But for years, the first thing that goes into my backpack before a flight is my headphones. I do have certain expectations from headphones though, given that I spend hours on flights wearing them. Obviously, comfort gets priority. As I was looking for my next over-ear headphones for travel, Sony sent me the new ULT Wear cans to try. They are over-ear with the classic Sony style, feature active noise cancellation, and have a dedicated button to boost bass for a more “boomy” sound experience. I have been using the ULT Wear headphones for a week now, and here’s what I think about them.Sony ULT Wear headphones price in India (as reviewed): Rs 16,990I wore them all day during work, travel, and while taking evening walks. They feel extremely comfortable, and although the ULT Wear uses a plastic case with a decent amount of padding around the earcups and the top band, the headphones never felt uncomfortable in Delhi’s scorching heat. They are big enough to cover my ears, and one can adjust the height of the headphones by pulling the earcups down to balance the weight. I barely feel them. The oval shape of the earcups helps with this in a massive way. After a while, my ears did feel warm, as expected with over-ear cans, but it was never too annoying.They not only come in the usual black or white options but also in an interesting dark green called Forest Gray. There is a ULT button on the left earcup (hence the name of the headphones) which pumps up the bass (more on that later). You will also find power and ANC/Ambient Mode buttons on the left earcup. Additionally, you can charge them via USB-C or listen corded via the 3.5mm audio jack on the left side. However, there is no way to listen to music via USB-C audio, as you can only transmit audio via the USB-C charging port. I would like Sony to add USB-C audio support to its headphones. The controls for playback and volume are competently hidden on the right earcup, and by swiping up or down, you can adjust the volume or skip tracks. The good thing is, thanks to built-in sensors, the headphones automatically pause music when you take them off. Sony also bundles a case with the headphones. If I were to travel with them, I wouldn’t need to think twice as the cloth-covered case is sturdy and well-designed. Sony promises up to 30 hours of battery life with noise cancellation on or ambient mode on and 50 hours with those switched off. Battery life is impressive. Sony is also offering quick charges here — 10 minutes provides about five hours of playback.I am neither an audiophile nor an audio purist who has very high standards when picking headphones. I think I fall into the bracket of most average users who don’t get too much into clarity and accuracy. However, I also don’t want to settle for “ordinary” sound quality. I listen to a wide range of music from pop, hip-hop, and classical to dance, and the ULT Wear handles all nicely. The sound is very good, and I can clearly hear the difference when I listen to the same music on the ULT Wear and the Sony WH-CH720N, which is in the entry mid-range segment. However, as I found in my testing, the ULT Wear works best for pop, dance, and EDM tracks. The ULT Wear has new 40mm drivers that Sony says deliver even deeper bass while the V1 chip improves noise-canceling performance and enables ear-detection sensors that pause your audio when you take the headphones off your head and resume playback when you put them back on. They sound full, rich, and generally well-balanced. However, the ULT Wear does lean towards a bass-rich sound. Yes, they are bass-heavy headphones, and Sony is clearly marketing them as such. As I mentioned earlier, a dedicated “ULT” button on the left earcup, when pressed, enables a lower-frequency boost, and a second press further increases the bass. Listening to “Sweet Goodbye” by Robin Schulz is a joy. Maybe a dedicated bass booster button is a nice gimmick after all. I particularly enjoyed listening to “Baby Don’t Hurt Me” by David Guetta, Anne-Marie, and Coi Leray, which features deep bass throughout the track while keeping the other beats and vocals intact. I listen to a lot of podcasts when I’m out walking, and for podcast listening, the ULT Wear is wonderful. I paired the ULT Wear with my iPhone 13 mini, iPad Air M2, and MacBook M3. All said and done, the ULT Wear sounds impressive, and I was not disappointed.The headphones work with the Sony Headphones Connect app, which enables a lot of its smart features. There are many customisation options available; the app can be configured to switch between noise canceling and ambient sound, change the equalizer and tweak the audio quality as per liking, and enable DSEE (Digital Sound Enhancement Engine), Sony’s proprietary upscaling technology to enhance compressed low-quality audio files, among other features. The ULT Wear does a great job of sealing out the outside world, especially when you are listening to music. I’ve been on calls with colleagues and friends while wearing the headphones, and they tell me there’s no distortion and everything comes in crystal clear. These headphones, however, are a step below Sony’s flagship 1000X series in filtering out outside noise. Still, the noise cancellation on these is probably the best I’ve ever experienced on mid-range over-ear headphones. ANC may not be a necessary feature for many, but for me, as someone who takes a lot of calls in a day, attends briefings, and conducts interviews, it’s nice to listen to voices with no external distractions.To justify spending Rs 17,000 on headphones, you have to love them. And…I did like the Sony ULT Wear. They sound amazing. I can use them for work and travel; their foldable design and large earcups make them a more compelling choice. My ears don’t get warm, and my temples don’t hurt after a while. I hope Sony spends a little more time fine-tuning the app.  "}
{"Title":"At this year’s Computex, it will be PC vs PC","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/laptops/at-this-years-computex-it-will-be-pc-vs-pc-9365712/","Content":"The introduction of ARM-based Macs initially gave Apple an edge in the Mac vs PC competition. However, the emergence of Snapdragon X series-powered Copilot+ laptops signals a resurgence for PCs, now competing even within the Windows ecosystem. The upcoming Computex 2024 will likely highlight this shift.Microsoft’s unveiling of Copilot+ PCs, powered by Snapdragon X Elite/Plus CPUs and running Windows 11 with on-device generative AI-enabled features like recall, marks a significant development. While Intel and AMD-powered Copilot+ PCs are on the horizon, Microsoft’s partnership with Qualcomm underscores a shift away from x86 dominance, leveling the playing field for ARM in the Windows ecosystem.We have seen ARM-powered Windows PCs before, but the current surge involves major OEMs like Acer, Asus, Dell, HP, Lenovo, and Samsung alongside Microsoft, all offering Copilot+ PCs featuring Snapdragon X Elite or Snapdragon X Plus processors. These PCs are currently exclusive to Qualcomm chips, but that’s set to change.Presently, only Qualcomm provides the dedicated NPU with at least 40 TOPs of performance required for Copilot+ PCs with features like recall. However, both Intel and AMD have hinted at their solutions, suggesting x86-based Copilot+ PCs could emerge by the end of 2024.During the Copilot+ launch event, Microsoft mostly compared the performance of its latest Surface Pro and Surface Laptop with MacBooks, a fair comparison given their shared architecture. However, the company also unveiled surprising figures, demonstrating that the ARM-based Surface machines are notably more powerful and power-efficient than their predecessors.Microsoft asserts that the new Copilot+ branded Surface Laptop and Surface Pro can outperform a 15-inch M3 MacBook Air by up to 58 per cent on the multi-core CPU benchmark, while offering 20 per cent more battery life. However, these are preliminary figures, and the real-world performance of these ARM-based PCs remains to be seen. To achieve maturity akin to Apple Silicon, more developers must introduce their apps natively on ARM—a trend Microsoft claims is gaining momentum.Many prominent software developers, including Adobe, DaVinci Resolve Studio, and djay Pro, have already committed to launching native ARM-based solutions for Copilot+ PCs, harnessing the capabilities of the new NPU.While Microsoft hasn’t published the comparison numbers between the two generations of Surface devices, the latest iteration is almost certain to be more powerful and efficient. The upcoming Lunar Lake chips from Intel and Strix Point from AMD need to deliver both on the performance and efficiency front to keep the race on, which will be unveiled at Computex 2024.Apple fully transitioned from x86 to Apple Silicon a few months ago, while PCs are likely to remain a diverse platform, where we will see laptops available with either ARM or an x86 chip."}
{"Title":"How AI made Mark Zuckerberg popular again in Silicon Valley","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/artificial-intelligence/how-ai-made-mark-zuckerberg-popular-again-in-silicon-valley-9366846/","Content":"Written by Mike IsaacWhen Mark Zuckerberg, the CEO of Meta, announced last year that his company would release an artificial intelligence system, Jeffrey Emanuel had reservations.Emanuel, a part-time hacker and full-time AI enthusiast, had tinkered with “closed” AI models, including OpenAI’s, meaning the systems’ underlying code could not be accessed or modified. When Zuckerberg introduced Meta’s AI system by invitation only to a handful of academics, Emanuel was concerned that the technology would remain limited to just a small circle of people.But in a release last summer of an updated AI system, Zuckerberg made the code “open source” so that it could be freely copied, modified and reused by anyone.Emanuel, the founder of the blockchain startup Pastel Network, was sold. He said he appreciated that Meta’s AI system was powerful and easy to use. Most of all, he loved how Zuckerberg was espousing the hacker code of making the technology freely available — largely the opposite of what Google, OpenAI and Microsoft have done.“We have this champion in Zuckerberg,” Emanuel, 42, said. “Thank God we have someone to protect the open-source ethos from these other big companies.”Zuckerberg has become the highest-profile technology executive to support and promote the open-source model for AI. That has put the 40-year-old billionaire squarely on one end of a divisive debate over whether the potentially world-changing technology is too dangerous to be made available to any coder who wants it.Microsoft, OpenAI and Google have more of a closed AI strategy to guard their tech, out of what they say is an abundance of caution. But Zuckerberg has loudly stood behind how the technology should be open to all.“This technology is so important, and the opportunities are so great, that we should open source and make it as widely available as we responsibly can, so that way everyone can benefit,” he said in an Instagram video in January.That stance has turned Zuckerberg into the unlikely man of the hour in many Silicon Valley developer communities, prompting talk of a “glow-up” and a kind of “Zuckaissance.” Even as the CEO continues grappling with scrutiny over misinformation and child safety issues on Meta’s platforms, many engineers, coders, technologists and others have embraced his position on making AI available to the masses.Since Meta’s first fully open-source AI model, called LLaMA 2, was released in July, the software has been downloaded more than 180 million times, the company said. A more powerful version of the model, LLaMA 3, which was released in April, reached the top of the download charts on Hugging Face, a community site for AI code, at record speed.Developers have created tens of thousands of their own customized AI programs on top of Meta’s AI software to perform everything from helping clinicians read radiology scans to creating scores of digital chatbot assistants.“I told Mark, I think that open sourcing LLaMA is the most popular thing that Facebook has done in the tech community — ever,” said Patrick Collison, CEO of the payments company Stripe, who recently joined a Meta strategic advisory group that is aimed at helping the company make strategic decisions about its AI technology. Meta owns Facebook, Instagram and other apps.Zuckerberg’s new popularity in tech circles is striking because of his fraught history with developers. Over two decades, Meta has sometimes pulled the rug out from under coders. In 2013, for instance, Zuckerberg bought Parse, a company that built developer tools, to attract coders to build apps for Facebook’s platform. Three years later, he shuttered the effort, angering developers who had invested their time and energy in the project.A spokesperson for Zuckerberg and Meta declined to comment. (The New York Times last year sued OpenAI and its partner, Microsoft, claiming copyright infringement of news content related to AI systems.)Open-source software has a long and storied history in Silicon Valley, with major tech battles revolving around open versus proprietary — or closed — systems.In the internet’s early days, Microsoft jockeyed to provide the software that ran internet infrastructure, only to eventually lose out to open-source software projects. More recently, Google open sourced its Android mobile operating system to take on Apple’s closed iPhone operating system. Firefox, the internet browser, WordPress, a blogging platform, and Blender, a popular set of animation software tools, were all built using open-source technologies.Zuckerberg, who founded Facebook in 2004, has long backed open-source technology. In 2011, Facebook started the Open Compute Project, a nonprofit that freely shares designs of servers and equipment inside data centers. In 2016, Facebook also developed Pytorch, an open-source software library that has been widely used to create AI applications. The company is also sharing blueprints of computing chips that it has developed.“Mark is a great student of history,” said Daniel Ek, Spotify’s CEO, who considers Zuckerberg a confidant. “Over time in the computing industry, he’s seen that there’s always been closed and open paths to take. And he has always defaulted to open.”At Meta, the decision to open source its AI was contentious. In 2022 and 2023, the company’s policy and legal teams supported a more conservative approach to releasing the software, fearing a backlash among regulators in Washington and the European Union. But Meta technologists like Yann LeCun and Joelle Pineau, who spearhead AI research, pushed the open model, which they argued would better benefit the company in the long term.The engineers won. Zuckerberg agreed that if the code was open, it could be improved and safeguarded faster, he said in a post last year on his Facebook page.While open sourcing LLaMA means giving away computer code that Meta spent billions of dollars to create with no immediate return on investment, Zuckerberg calls it “good business.” As more developers use Meta’s software and hardware tools, the more likely they are to become invested in its technology ecosystem, which helps entrench the company.The technology has also helped Meta improve its own internal AI systems, aiding ad targeting and recommendations of more relevant content on Meta’s apps.“It is 100% aligned with Zuckerberg’s incentives and how it can benefit Meta,” said Nur Ahmed, a researcher at MIT Sloan who studies AI. “LLaMA is a win-win for everybody.”Competitors are taking note. In February, Google open sourced the code for two AI models, Gemma 2B and Gemma 7B, a sign that it was feeling the heat from Zuckerberg’s open-source approach. Google did not respond to requests for comment. Other companies, including Microsoft, Mistral, Snowflake and Databricks, have also started offering open-source models this year.For some coders, Zuckerberg’s AI approach hasn’t erased all of the baggage of the past. Sam McLeod, 35, a software developer in Melbourne, Australia, deleted his Facebook accounts years ago after growing uncomfortable with the company’s track record on user privacy and other factors.But more recently, he said, he recognized that Zuckerberg had released “cutting edge” open-source software models with “permissive licensing terms,” something that can’t be said for other big tech companies.Matt Shumer, 24, a developer in New York, said he had used closed AI models from Mistral and OpenAI to power digital assistants for his startup, HyperWrite. But after Meta released its updated open-source AI model last month, Shumer started relying heavily on that instead. Whatever reservations he had about Zuckerberg are in the past.“Developers have started to see past a lot of issues they’ve had with him and Facebook,” Shumer said. “Right now, what he’s doing is genuinely good for the open-source community.”"}
{"Title":"Meta’s Facebook says it is attracting most young adults in 3 years","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/social/metas-facebook-says-it-is-attracting-most-young-adults-in-3-years-9366827/","Content":"Meta said on Friday its flagship app Facebook is attracting its highest number of young adults in three years, as it tries to shake the platform’s reputation as the bastion of an older generation.More than 40 million U.S. and Canadian adults aged 18 to 29 now check Facebook daily, the social media company said, in its first-ever release of such demographic information. Facebook, whose founder Mark Zuckerberg turned 40 last month, marked its 20th anniversary this year.The growth reflects the company’s efforts in the last few years to recapture the attention of young adults who have been flocking to short video app TikTok, owned by China’s ByteDance.Meta charted “five quarters of healthy app usage growth” among young adults, a company spokesperson said.At an event in New York aimed at highlighting how young people use the app, Meta’s head of Facebook Tom Alison said the anniversary prompted executives to realize Facebook needed to evolve to stay relevant for the next generation.“Who is Facebook for? Is it for my parents?” Alison said, citing questions he said he had heard from young adults.Alison told Reuters in an interview that young users appeared to be coming to Facebook initially to use sections like Marketplace, Groups and Dating at key moments in their lives, such as when they needed to furnish apartments for the first time.While most of those sections do not feature ads, their usage was driving engagement broadly, he added.“Once they’re on Facebook, they go and they check out stuff that’s going on in Feed or from Reels,” he said, referring to Meta’s TikTok-like short video product.Facebook, founded in a Harvard University dorm in 2004, spread like wildfire across U.S. college campuses after it launched and quickly became the default mass communications platform for a generation of internet users. The app amassed 50 million users within its first three years and now has 3.2 billion users globally.Along the way, however, it became less attractive to the young users who drive consumer fads and are considered crucial by the advertisers responsible for most of Meta’s ad sales.Only about a third of U.S. teens say they use Facebook, according to a survey last year by research organization Pew, a sharp drop compared to previous surveys the group conducted in 2014 and 2015.By comparison, the share of all U.S. adults who say they use Facebook has remained relatively flat since 2016 at around 68%, Pew has said."}
{"Title":"How Meta’s collaboration with creators is transforming sports consumption in India","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/social/meta-social-media-sports-consumption-cricket-ipl-9365975/","Content":"Over the years, India’s favourite sport, cricket, has evolved into different forms. And, so have the fans and how they enjoy their favourite sport. While earlier fans were merely spectators, today owing to social media they are engaging with tournaments like never before. This is true for all sporting events as social media platforms have emerged as a driving force behind the shift in sports consumption. Fans today have unprecedented access to their favourite games, teams, players, and tournaments.Social media giant Meta is at the forefront of this revolution. The Mark Zuckerberg-led platform has used social media to redefine sports consumption experience. Paras Sharma, director, content and community partnerships at Meta, shared the company’s approach in an insightful interaction with indianexpress.com. “Meta’s family of apps enables different types of fan engagement – from having deeper conversations on Threads, to seeing behind-the-scenes athlete content on Instagram/Reels, watching highlights/clips on Facebook/Instagram, accessing exclusive superfan content in community channels, and getting latest news updates on WhatsApp channels,” he explained.According to Sharma, this diversified offering caters to the diverse needs of modern sports enthusiasts, who long for a dynamic experience that goes much beyond spectatorship. Fans can now engage in meaningful discussions, gain exclusive insights into their idols’ lives, and stay on top of the latest developments, all within the seamless ecosystem of Meta’s platforms.Sharma revealed that the numbers speak volumes about the impact of this approach. During the 2023 Cricket World Cup, Meta’s platforms witnessed a surge in engagement, with a whopping 16.9 billion views and an impressive 1.3-1.4 billion engagements across their apps. “The Australia vs India final got around 70 million views, and Virat Kohli breaking a record got 30-40 million views,” Sharma shared, highlighting the key moments that resonated with fans worldwide.Interestingly, the most-watched piece of content didn’t even feature an Indian player. As Sharma revealed, “The most watched single piece of content was a 123 million view reel by creator Princy Parikh featuring Kane Williamson.” This remarkable statistic underscores the power of social media to transcend geographical boundaries and foster a global sports community.At the heart of Meta’s strategy lies a strong network of collaborations and partnerships with key stakeholders in the sports industry. “Meta partners with key stakeholders like governing bodies (ICC, BCCI), broadcasters (Star Sports), teams, and athletes to create unique experiences tailored for different fan cohorts across their platforms,” Sharma explained. This synergy enables Meta to deliver a comprehensive and immersive experience that caters to every type of fan, from casual observers to die-hard enthusiasts.The ongoing impact of social media in sports consumption is also owing to the new breed of content creators. Using Facebook and Instagram, these creators are shaping the narrative around sports on social media. “Engaging sports fans doesn’t have a specific trick, but in our comedy genre, we aim for maximum humour. The funnier the video, the more fans will engage. So, the technique is simple: keep it funny and focus on quality content,” shared Dhruv and Shyam, the duo behind Funcho, who are known for their comedy as well sports-themed content.When it comes to engaging the fans, they emphasised the importance of authenticity and passion, stating, “Our passion for these topics makes our content better, and it gives our audience something they enjoy. So, basically, we choose what to cover based on what we love.”However, navigating the world of sports content creation on social media comes with its own set of challenges, as Funcho acknowledged: “When creating sports content in India, whether it’s focused on a franchise or a player, it’s crucial to tread carefully due to their immense fan following. Even when aiming for light comedy or entertainment, fans can be highly sensitive.”Yet, despite these obstacles, the reward of connecting with a passionate audience makes it all worthwhile. As Funcho shared, “Following the IPL, our focus has shifted to the T20 Cricket World Cup, a monumental event. We’re gearing up to travel to the US to capture exciting content surrounding the matches, all in support of Team India.”Sports content is not as easy as other content that spreads like wildfire, it involves a lot of creativity and originality as most fans are well-versed with their favourite events. “When it comes to selecting a topic, I look at what is happening at the moment. For instance, if it is IPL or some big news about a sports legend’s retirement I weave in the content accordingly. Mostly, it’s about what’s happening in the sporting landscape. Besides, I also work on a lot of content where I discuss landmark matches, interesting old stories and anecdotes. All of these involve my unique way of storytelling,” said another creator Drog Baba. When asked about what specific techniques he uses to engage the fans, Drog Baba said that live streaming has been quite effective. “With live streams, communities interact directly, and they find it very useful. Additionally, you have to be open to feedback. They comment on your videos about what they want to hear, which really helps. They find it very good for engaging with the community,” Baba explained.With evolving sports consumption, platforms like Meta and others are partnering with creators to offer exciting fan experiences across multiple formats and touchpoints. Although challenges persist around fan polarisation and ever-changing nature of trends, the creator community continues to find innovative ways to engage with audiences. "}
{"Title":"Tech for biodiversity is great but not at the cost of forest communities: Anita Arjundas, Executive Director, ATREE","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/tech-news-technology/tech-biodiversity-forest-communities-atree-9365381/","Content":"Anita Arjundas is the Executive Director at the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE), Bengaluru, a globally recognised not-for-profit working towards biodiversity conservation.ATREE works across landscapes on issues pertaining to biodiversity conservation and restoration, water security, sustainable resource use, livelihoods and human well-being, and climate change adaptation and mitigation. It is ranked among the top 20 environmental think tanks worldwide.Anita spoke to indianexpress.com on the tech innovations in the field of biodiversity and the challenges that technologists and biodiversity researchers face while maintaining a balance between the benefits of tech innovation and its possible impact on forest communities. Edited excerpts:Anita Arjundas: Technologists and biodiversity organisations are collaborating in many ways. One such example is the global RE-FOREST-ER consortium, which is competing for the internationally renowned XPRIZE Rainforest. It brings together the skills of geospatial analytics, rainforest restoration, and large commercial eDNA facilities to use remote sensing and cloud-based geographic information systems, AI algorithms and eDNA analysis for sustainable conservation. These XPRIZE challenges are global and such incentives have brought about radical changes in technology.In India, machine learning, artificial intelligence and open-access platforms are helping us answer questions at a scale and in ways that were not possible earlier. For instance, ATREE has been invited to join the CoRE Stack initiative led by IIT Delhi and IIT Palakkad to help communities enhance their natural resource capabilities. CoRE Stack combines publicly available data and machine learning to create a data-driven approach to understanding the social-ecological characteristics of landscapes. It also helps communities propose natural resource management action plans through community-friendly digital tools.Anita Arjundas: Robots, drones and sensors are helpful in tackling environmental challenges in inaccessible terrains. These technologies have various applications, from remote monitoring to the collection of biological material and mass reforestation.Remote monitoring through drones, robots and sensors has certainly lowered the financial and logistical costs of monitoring, but it might be too early to say that it has simplified our lives.For instance, the Assam Forest Department is using sensor-based cameras to monitor vehicular speed reasonably well along the national highway that passes through Kaziranga National Park, but this also necessitates setting up a control centre to monitor these cameras. Similarly, we tried installing sensors to monitor lake health in Bangalore a few years back, but they stopped working within a couple of days because they quickly formed a biofilm of algae in the lake’s nutrient-rich environments.Anita Arjundas: The Internet of Wild Things (IoWT) takes the Internet of Things (IoT) concept and applies it to the natural world. It uses sensor-equipped devices deployed in animal habitats to get data on wildlife and their environments. In India, researchers, government and local institutions use passive acoustic sensors to monitor sites and track ecosystem restoration at sites in the Western Ghats and Central India.At ATREE, our scientists who focus on movement ecology use radio collars and tags to assess how habitat changes affect local and long-range movement of animals and migratory birds. These sensors have helped us understand how movement impacts human-wildlife interactions and local livelihoods and how movement of animals and migratory birds itself responds to changes in habitat and land use. Recently, Tamil Nadu installed sensor-based cameras that detect elephant presence near railway tracks and alert railway officials so they can respond quickly and consistently, reducing the chances of accidents and elephant fatalities.Anita Arjundas: Bioremediation technology is indeed promising in the context of lake restoration. Examples of such technologies include floating islands and constructed wetlands. These systems utilise the microcosm within the root zone of plants to remove excess nutrients and toxic metals from the water. Additionally, algae, particularly cyanobacteria, which were once considered problematic, can now be harnessed to uptake nutrients. The harvested algae are then processed into ingredients for everyday consumer goods.ATREE’s water scientists have made use of constructed wetlands to create cost-effective solutions for wastewater treatment in the Jakkur Lake and are developing a similar system in Venkateshpura Lake in Bangalore.Anita Arjundas: The smartphone has democratised the process of data collection and helps in crowdsourced monitoring and citizen science. Scientists and researchers now detect patterns and processes much faster and at lower costs than ever before. For instance, citizen science data has helped the SeasonWatch team detect signs of shifts in some trees’ flowering and fruiting patterns, which is likely to be in response to climate change. SeasonWatch is an India-wide citizen science project following the patterns of emergence and maturation of leaves, flowers and fruits on common tree species of India. SeasonWatch monitors the annual flowering, fruiting, and leaf-flush cycles of over more than 130 common trees using citizen science.Another example is the State of India’s Birds report, which uses over 30 million observations uploaded by more than 30,000 birdwatchers on Cornell University’s eBird platform. This citizen-sourced data allows the evaluation of the distribution range of 942 Indian birds. ATREE’s scientists have been part of this effort to assess the conservation status of bird species in India.Governments have also recognised the power of these initiatives. For instance, the Government of Tamil Nadu’s pioneering policy on invasive species management highlights MIAP- Mapping Invasive Alien Plants, an ATREE and Keystone Foundation-led initiative to map multiple invasive alien plants using citizen science.Anita Arjundas: Open source software and data through satellite imagery have been prevalent in biodiversity conservation and research for a while now. Over the last few years, cloud computing platforms like Google Earth Engine have taken this one step further by removing the need for high-cost computing and data storage infrastructure. This has helped us track long-term ecosystem degradation and map threatened open-natural ecosystems for the whole country.Other initiatives, like MeITY’s Bhashini platform are creating an AI-based approach to bringing knowledge and insights in India’s multiple languages to local communities. On the flip side, there have been surprising developments, such as the disappearance of Google Earth’s free archive of historical satellite imagery, which helps scientists, students and researchers track and validate land use and land cover change across the country.Despite the use of multiple technology platforms like drones, thermal cameras, camera traps and sensors, the hardware component remains largely closed. However, this may change in the future as technologists work more closely with conservation organisations.Anita Arjundas: Any recognition technology depends on hours of data collection, and this is true for data on animals as well. Such extensive data collection makes it easier to identify animals with distinctive patterns. Over time, AI will improve the accuracy and speed of this effort, but it is also important to be mindful of the potential for misuse of this technology, especially with regard to the legitimate rights of the forest-dwelling communities to access the ecosystems that surround their villages.Anita Arjundas: ATREE has a rich history of using tech to build databases on India’s biodiversity, identifying patterns and processes, and prioritising landscapes and species for further action.In the context of online databases, ATREE’s view is that the knowledge commons being made available to multiple stakeholders is critical to biodiversity conservation, management and community engagement. We are in the final stages of developing the Checklist of Indian Plants, a comprehensive database of around 15000+ species of plants vetted by international experts.ATREE’s Conservation Genetics Lab uses e-DNA analysis in multiple ways — to map invasive alien fishes, assess competition between wild and domestic herbivores, and to identify adulteration compounds and levels in a host of food and medicinal products.ATREE’s researchers actively synthesise open-access data to map ecosystem degradation to prioritise sites for conservation. Our plan is to use technology to define problems at scale, prioritise where scarce resources should be used, monitor and manage on-ground action, and most importantly enable communities to access data and information that can be used by them.For example, our scientists have developed a mobile app that allows Forest Rights Committee members to upload Community Forest Resource (CFR) Rights claim boundaries as part of their CFR rights claim-recognition process. The app (Aamcho CFR Mapping) draws on publicly browsable maps and boundary information built by ATREE’s researchers through a Web GIS platform. This combined with on-ground capacity building has enabled Community Forest Resource rights in over 55,000 hectares in India.ATREE has deeply engaged with the communities in the Western Ghats, the backwaters of Kerala and the Eastern Himalayas. This has given us novel and rich insights into these landscapes’ opportunities (e.g., cropping patterns, wild and endemic foods, medicinal plants) and challenges (e.g., invasive alien species, forest rights and land tenure). We have started working on putting together a community-friendly, locally sensitive information portal. As we build this data portal, we will also explore ways to add cutting-edge, AI-based functionality for local language support and a chatbot-type interface that will serve as a blueprint for other such community-focused, site-specific portals under the Biodiversity Collaborative.Anita Arjundas serves as an Independent Director in the Board of Governors of the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development and on the India Advisory Board of The Nature Conservancy.She was associated with the establishment and governance of Krea University, in its formative phase. She has previously served on the Steering Board of the World Economic Forum’s ‘Future of Urban Development \u0026 Services’ and catalysed the establishment of the Mahindra TERI Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Habitats, an open source research hub for energy and water efficiency."}
{"Title":"Tech Layoffs 2024: May sees massive decline in job cuts, dropping to 9k from April’s 21k","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/tech-layoffs-2024-may-it-sector-transportation-9365389/","Content":"The month of May 2024 has witnessed a wave of job cuts across the tech industry. From tech giant Google to Toshiba, a host of companies slashed jobs impacting thousands worldwide. May witnessed as many as 39 companies laying off 9,742 employees, as per layoffs.fyi, a website that tracks global layoffs. In April this year, 50 companies laid off 21,473 employees. May has witnessed over a 75 per cent drop in total employees laid off. On May 16, it was reported that Japan’s Toshiba will cut over 4,000 jobs domestically as the conglomerate is accelerating restructuring under its new ownership. While Toshiba impacted the most number of employees, the Japanese company was followed by job site Indeed which laid off close to 1,000 of its staff, and as many as 800 staff were sacked by Portland, US-based Vacasa, an international vacation rental management company. This year so far, 304 tech companies have laid off 89,193 employees from across the industry.Based on the recent trends, it seems the transportation industry was the most impacted by layoffs in May 2024. Multiple companies in the segment announced large-scale layoffs. Lucid Motors, Rivian, and Fisker were among the top companies that slashed their workforce. While Lucid Motors laid off 400 employees, accounting for 6 per cent of its workforce, Rivian cut jobs on two separate occasions within the month, affecting 120 employees on May 10, and another 150 on May 3. Fisker also contributed to the industry’s job losses with layoffs on May 29 and April 29, though the exact number of layoffs in May was not specified​​. Roughly over 1,200 people were handed out the pink slip in May. When it comes to layoffs in May, it seems there have been multiple factors that prompted companies to take extreme measures. One of the major reasons is the economic uncertainty and the ever-fluctuating market conditions. It is to be noted that in the last 18 months, several companies have been struggling to maintain their profitability as they were impacted by rising operational costs, shifting consumer demand trends, etc. Moreover, the recent advancements in automation and technology has caused many companies to restructure their setups and aim to increase efficiency and decrease labour costs. It needs to be noted that Lucid Motors and Rivian, both electric vehicle manufacturers, decided to layoff employees as they have been reportedly impacted by the disruptions in supply chain. It seems most of these companies are under constant pressure to innovate and reduce costs along with meeting environmental regulations. These could be factors that may have forced these companies to make firm decisions including reducing the workforce. In May, it was not just the transportation sector that witnessed layoffs. Education, healthcare, and finance sectors saw significant layoffs too. While Guild, an education company, laid off 300 employees, about 25 per cent of its workforce, Cue Health in San Diego announced two rounds of layoffs, affecting 180 employees on May 22 and 230 employees on May 3. Meanwhile, in the finance sector job cuts were announced in companies like Wefox in Berlin, which laid off 60 employees, and Mainvest in Boston, which witnessed a 100 per cent reduction in its workforce​​.When it comes to the tech industry, the biggest name Google saw multiple rounds of layoffs. On May 10, the company sacked 57 of its staff, and on May 1, it laid off 200 employees. This is in addition to the 57 employees that it let go on April 30. Although the layoffs highlight the ongoing challenges faced by various industries, it needs to be noted that the number of layoffs being reported is on the decline. It could be possible that companies are finally putting in efforts to efficiently manage priorities without impacting existing jobs. It cannot be denied that there is an economic uncertainty, technological advancements like AI, and competitive pressures for companies. However, as the market continues to evolve, companies must adapt and find sustainable solutions. "}
{"Title":"Poco F6 review: This phone punches above its weight","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/tech-reviews/poco-f6-review-9364896/","Content":"The Poco F1, the company’s first flagship smartphone, was my first flagship too. Since then, I have tested almost every Poco F series smartphone launched in India, except for the Poco F3 GT, and they all have had one thing in common – performance.The Poco F6, India’s first Snapdragon 8s Gen 3-powered smartphone, follows suit, but is it enough to awe users in 2024?I have been testing Poco F6 for over two weeks. Here is my detailed review.The Poco F series smartphones were never about the looks, and the F6 is not either. The phone looks average and boring with nothing unique to offer. The plastic body and frame make it lightweight but one could easily mistake it for a budget smartphone.On the bright side, however, it is now IP64 rated, making it water and dust-resistant. It was able to survive the early monsoon rains in Bengaluru. This doesn’t warrant anyone dipping the phone in a pool. Like the previous model, the F6 also comes with 24 months of warranty, an assurance of its quality.When I first booted the Poco F6, the display looked a bit dull with colours being on the muted sides. But this was since the display was set to “Original Colour Pro” profile by default. Once I changed it to “Vivid”, the display came to life, boosting colours and contrast, making the pictures and videos look great.The 6.67-inch 120Hz display with 1.5K resolution makes everything look a bit sharper. This was evident since I switched from the Galaxy F55 (review) with an FHD+ resolution screen. The display also gets really bright, theoretically, going up to 2,400 nits, making the screen ‘almost flagship’ level. This time around, the bezels are even thinner, but not as uniform as the ones on the Nothing Phone (2a) (review).Unlike the Realme GT 6T, the Poco F6 has a flat panel display, best suited for gamers, as curved displays are always reported to have ghost touch issues, especially around the corners. If you are someone who binge-watches on a smartphone, the Poco F6 performs well on that front.Stereo speaker setups on smartphones have become common these days. The ones on the Poco F6 are the loudest and clearest speakers I have listened to on a phone priced under Rs 40,000. I always praise the speakers on my iPhone 15, Poco F6 speakers are equally good.The same can be said about the haptic feedback, the keys offer precise feedback, making you feel you are physically pressing the keys.There is nothing special about the cameras on the Poco F6, but they aren’t as poor as the ones on some of the other phones in this class. The 50 MP primary camera with OIS can capture some great shots in both daylight and low light conditions, and it can also shoot up to 4K 60fps videos, while the 20 MP selfie camera can only do up to 1080p 60fps videos.Check out some of the camera samples from the streets of Taipei, Taiwan shot on the Poco F6:The Poco F series is renowned for its performance and the F6 takes it up a notch with the Snapdragon 8s Gen 3 SoC. It offers up to 512 GB of UFS 4.0-based internal storage and up to 12 GB of LPDDR5x type RAM.In the regular mode, the phone scored over 1.3 million on AnTuTu, and on the CPU throttling test, it offers a stability score of 89 per cent. To put these numbers into context, the Poco F6 outperformed my Galaxy S23 Ultra that cost me almost four times the price of the F6.The device is fantastic, and can handle any task you throw at it, be it downloading large files, surfing through social media, playing heavy games, and more. With most of these tasks, the device doesn’t break a sweat. With continued gaming (on titles like CoD: Mobile and Asphalt 9), the phone does get warm, but this doesn’t affect the performance in any way.The highly customisable lock screen on the Poco F6 is one of the best features of the HyperOS, and the rest feels very similar to MIUI with more hints of iOS than ever before. Thanks to the powerful chip, the OS feels fluid. However, Poco should have addressed the bloatware situation, as the phone comes with unnecessary apps and games. These can be uninstalled, but spoil the first impression and change how one perceives this phone. Poco is also promising three major OS upgrades and four years of security updates, which should keep the phone solid and secure at least until 2028. In 2024, the lack of any generative AI features also hurts a bit.The Poco F6 packs a 5,000 mAh battery with support for 90W fast charging. While most phone brands won’t even include a charger in the box these days, Poco has outdone itself by providing a 120W fast charger with support for USB-PD protocol. This can also charge most phones and laptops. The phone can be fully charged in under 40 minutes using the bundled adapter.\nThe device, on most days, delivered an average battery life of between five to six hours with regular usage on both WiFi and 5G networks. However, if you tend to play games for more than an hour a day, the battery life will come down to around four and a half hours.There isn’t much that has changed from the Poco F1 (review) to the Poco F6, and it’s a good thing. Just like the first model, the Poco F6 caters to those who value performance over everything else, that too at a price point most phones pack a chip that’s at least a year old or a mid-tier processor.A phone with Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 will cost at least Rs 35,000, and the Poco F6, for Rs 29,999 (for Rs 25,999 with bank offers), offers more performance. This is enough to get this device, and for gamers, who are on a budget, there is nothing better than this in the market."}
{"Title":"Elections 2024: How Wikimedia is combating misinformation using AI, human intervention","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/artificial-intelligence/elections-2024-wikimedia-misinformation-ai-9365074/","Content":"From bots and extensions to assisted editing programs and web applications, the Wikimedia Foundation has deployed a plethora of tools for patrolling Wikipedia this election year.In 2024, elections are taking place in over 60 countries and the European Union. More people than ever before — nearly half of the world’s population — are eligible to vote this year. This means that more people than ever will be looking for information to shape their decisions. India is in the last phase of the general elections and the vote counting will take place on June 4. The first thing that comes up on a search engine once the user enters a search query is a Wikipedia page.To understand how Wikipedia is tackling misinformation and disinformation at such a crucial time, The Indian Express interacted with Costanza Sciubba Caniglia, anti-disinformation strategy lead at the Wikimedia Foundation, the non-profit that hosts the global website.The information on Wikipedia is created and curated by a community of over 2,65,000 volunteers from around the world. Together, they compile and share information on notable subjects citing reliable sources. Caniglia claimed that the volunteers vigilantly defend against information that does not meet the site’s policies. She also mentioned that the whole process of content moderation by Wikipedia volunteers is open and transparent.Use of AI on WikipediaCostanza opined that the organisation believes that artificial intelligence (AI) should support the work of humans and not replace them. The approach to AI on Wikipedia has always been through “closed-loop” systems, in which humans are in the loop — they edit, improve, and audit the work done by AI. While all content on Wikipedia is created and curated by humans, since 2002, some volunteers have used AI and machine learning (ML) tools to support their work, especially on time-consuming and redundant tasks.Volunteers have developed and deployed a plethora of specialised tools for patrolling Wikipedia, including bots (e.g., ClueBot NG, ST47ProxyBot), gadgets, userscripts, and extensions (e.g., Twinkle, LiveRC, Real-Time Recent Changes, Page Curation), assisted editing programs (e.g., Huggle, Vandal Fighter, AutoWikiBrowser), and web applications (Checkwiki, CopyPatrol, XTools, Global user contributions) — that help volunteers quickly identify and revert wrongful edits.The Wikimedia Foundation has a team creating a new generation of AI models to increase the capacity of volunteers.Detection of vandalismWhen a user account or IP address repeatedly violates Wikipedia policies, administrators can take disciplinary action, including blocking them from further editing. Violations can include things such as repeated vandalism, undisclosed paid editing, or edit warring.One of the bots created by volunteers and active for over a decade, ClueBot NG, detects vandalism on Wikipedia. Importantly, volunteers use an interface to manually label an edit as vandalism or not. A training algorithm then uses that data to help identify new edits suspected of vandalism and reverts them.Measures to prevent biased editing or vandalism on politically sensitive pages, especially during elections.The most fundamental pillar of Wikipedia is that it must be written from a neutral point of view. This means that all encyclopaedic content on Wikipedia must be attributed to a reliable source and be presented fairly, proportionately, and, as far as possible, without editorial bias.During events of global importance, such as elections, Wikipedia editors will often take steps to ensure that information about relevant topics stays as reliable as possible. Some of the measures are as follows:* Administrators on Wikipedia can temporarily ‘protect’ a page from modification by less-experienced and new users.* Experienced editors also use ‘watchlists’ to keep track of pages that they are interested in, helping them to quickly identify and respond to mis/disinformation attempts on those topic articles. This feature is particularly useful at times when certain pages get a high number of new edits.* Wikipedia’s volunteer-based arbitration committee has built specific rules to tackle some contentious topic areas that are more prone to persistent disruptive editing than others. These rules provide more latitude to Wikipedia administrators in enforcing Wikipedia’s guidelines and taking action more promptly to mitigate and prevent disruptive edits. Like all other activities on Wikipedia, the arbitration enforcement actions are logged publicly and can be appealed through community channels.* More than 140 volunteer Wikipedia editors are part of WikiProject Elections and Referendums, established in 2009 to standardise and improve Wikipedia’s coverage of elections.* Volunteers work together to establish a list of reliable or unreliable sources that is visible to all, and that can be used to ensure that the information shared comes from a trustworthy source.For this election year, the Foundation has also developed a cross-functional working group of staff across the organisation to prepare for risks and support volunteers through a dedicated communication channel.Challenges using AI or ML to safeguard Wikipedia content during past electionsAround the 2020 US Presidential elections, the Foundation, in collaboration with multiple universities around the world, delivered a suite of new research projects that examined how disinformation could manifest on the site. The insights from the research led to the product development of new human-centred machine-learning services that enhance the volunteer community’s oversight of the projects. These algorithms supported editors in tasks such as detecting unsourced statements on Wikipedia and identifying malicious edits and behaviour trends.More than 56,000 Wikipedia volunteers protected about 2,000 election-related pages at all hours. The main US Election article saw just 33 reverted edits during the same time frame — a testament to the community’s preparedness and the defences they put in place.Future developmentsCostanza said that the Wikimedia Foundation’s mission is to provide free knowledge to all and to fulfil this mission, they recognise the need to adapt to new trends in the ways that people are searching for information and participating in knowledge creation. In this spirit, the Foundation is exploring new ways to meet people’s knowledge needs in responsible ways including with ‘generative AI platforms’."}
{"Title":"The new ChatGPT offers a lesson in AI hype","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/artificial-intelligence/the-new-chatgpt-offers-a-lesson-in-ai-hype-9364974/","Content":"When OpenAI unveiled the latest version of its immensely popular ChatGPT chatbot this month, it had a new voice possessing humanlike inflections and emotions. The online demonstration also featured the bot tutoring a child on solving a geometry problem.To my chagrin, the demo turned out to be essentially a bait and switch. The new ChatGPT was released without most of its new features, including the improved voice (which the company said it postponed to make fixes). The ability to use a phone’s videocamera to get real-time analysis of something like a math problem isn’t available yet, either.Amid the delay, the company also deactivated the ChatGPT voice that some said sounded like actress Scarlett Johansson, after she threatened legal action, replacing it with a different female voice.For now, what has actually been rolled out in the new ChatGPT is the ability to upload photos for the bot to analyze. Users can generally expect quicker, more lucid responses. The bot can also do real-time language translations, but ChatGPT will respond in its older, machinelike voice.Nonetheless, this is the leading chatbot that upended the tech industry, so it was worth reviewing. After trying the sped-up chatbot for two weeks, I had mixed feelings. It excelled at language translations, but it struggled with math and physics. All told, I didn’t see a meaningful improvement from the last version, ChatGPT-4. I definitely wouldn’t let it tutor my child.This tactic, in which artificial intelligence companies promise wild new features and deliver a half-baked product, is becoming a trend that is bound to confuse and frustrate people. The $700 Ai Pin, a talking lapel pin from the startup Humane, which is funded by OpenAI’s CEO, Sam Altman, was universally panned because it overheated and spat out nonsense. Meta also recently added to its apps an AI chatbot that did a poor job at most of its advertised tasks, like web searches for plane tickets.Companies are releasing AI products in a premature state partly because they want people to use the technology to help them learn how to improve it. In the past, when companies unveiled new tech products like phones, what we were shown — features like new cameras and brighter screens — was what we were getting. With AI, companies are giving a preview of a potential future, demonstrating technologies that are being developed and working only in limited, controlled conditions. A mature, reliable product might arrive — or might not.The lesson to learn from all this is that we, as consumers, should resist the hype and take a slow, cautious approach to AI. We shouldn’t be spending much cash on any underbaked tech until we see proof that the tools work as advertised.The new version of ChatGPT, called GPT-4o (“o” as in “omni”), is now free to try on OpenAI’s website and app. Nonpaying users can make a few requests before hitting a timeout, and those who have a $20 monthly subscription can ask the bot a larger number of questions.OpenAI said its iterative approach to updating ChatGPT allowed it to gather feedback to make improvements.“We believe it’s important to preview our advanced models to give people a glimpse of their capabilities and to help us understand their real-world applications,” the company said in a statement.(The New York Times sued OpenAI and its partner, Microsoft, last year for using copyrighted news articles without permission to train chatbots.)Here’s what to know about the latest version of ChatGPT.To show off ChatGPT-4o’s new tricks, OpenAI published a video featuring Sal Khan, the CEO of the Khan Academy, the education nonprofit, and his son, Imran. With a video camera pointed at a geometry problem, ChatGPT was able to talk Imran through solving it step by step.Even though ChatGPT’s video analysis feature has yet to be released, I was able to upload photos of geometry problems. ChatGPT solved some of the easier ones correctly, but it tripped up on more challenging problems.For one problem involving intersecting triangles, which I dug up on an SAT preparation website, the bot understood the question but gave the wrong answer.Taylor Nguyen, a high school physics teacher in Orange County, California, uploaded a physics problem involving a man on a swing that is commonly included on Advanced Placement Calculus tests. ChatGPT made several logical mistakes to give the wrong answer, but it was able to correct itself with feedback from Nguyen.“I was able to coach it, but I’m a teacher,” he said. “How is a student supposed to pick out those mistakes? They’re making this assumption that the chatbot is right.”I did notice that ChatGPT-4o succeeded at some division calculations that its predecessors did incorrectly, so there are signs of slow improvement. But it also failed at a basic math task that past versions and other chatbots, including Meta AI and Google’s Gemini, have flunked at: the ability to count. When I asked ChatGPT-4o for a four-syllable word starting with the letter “W,” it responded, “Wonderful.”OpenAI said it was constantly working to improve its systems’ responses to complex math problems. Khan, whose company uses OpenAI’s technology in its tutoring software Khanmigo, did not respond to a request for comment on whether he would leave ChatGPT the tutor alone with his son.OpenAI also highlighted that the new ChatGPT was better at reasoning, or using logic to come up with responses. So I ran it through one of my favorite tests: I asked it to generate a Where’s Waldo? puzzle. When it showed an image of a giant Waldo standing in a crowd, I said that the point is that he’s supposed to be hard to find.The bot then generated an even larger Waldo.Subbarao Kambhampati, a professor and researcher of artificial intelligence at Arizona State University, also put the chatbot through some tests and said he saw no noticeable improvement in reasoning compared with the last version.He presented ChatGPT a puzzle involving blocks:If block C is on top of block A, and block B is separately on the table, can you tell me how I can make a stack of blocks with block A on top of block B and block B on top of block C, but without moving block C?The answer is that it’s impossible to arrange the blocks under these conditions, but, just as with past versions, ChatGPT-4o consistently came up with a solution that involved moving block C. With this and other reasoning tests, ChatGPT was occasionally able to take feedback to get the correct answer, which is antithetical to how AI is supposed to work, Kambhampati said.“You can correct it, but when you do that, you’re using your own intelligence,” he said.OpenAI pointed to test results that showed GPT-4o scored about 2 percentage points higher at answering general knowledge questions than previous versions of ChatGPT, illustrating that its reasoning skills had slightly improved.OpenAI also said the new ChatGPT could do real-time language translation, which could help you converse with someone speaking a foreign language.I tested ChatGPT with Mandarin and Cantonese and confirmed that it was OK at translating phrases, such as “I’d like to book a hotel room for next Thursday” and “I want a king-size bed.” But the accents were slightly off. (To be fair, my broken Chinese is not much better.) OpenAI said it was still working to improve accents.ChatGPT-4o also excelled as an editor. When I fed it paragraphs that I wrote, it was fast and effective at removing excessive words and jargon. ChatGPT’s decent performance with language translation gives me confidence that this will soon become a more useful feature.A major thing OpenAI got right with ChatGPT-4o is making the technology free for people to try. Free is the right price: Since we are helping to train these AI systems with our data to improve, we shouldn’t be paying for them.The best of AI has yet to come, and it might one day be a good math tutor that we want to talk to. But we should believe it when we see it — and hear it.This article originally appeared in The New York Times."}
{"Title":"5 smartphones with professionally-tuned camera setups to buy in 2024","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/mobile-tabs/smartphones-with-professionally-tuned-cameras-9364262/","Content":"Smartphone cameras have come a long way. From a basic VGA sensor to a high-resolution 200 MP and 1-inch type sensors, smartphones have almost entirely replaced point-to-shoot cameras. Some brands have even collaborated with legendary camera brands to further optimise the imaging capability, and to attract more shutterbugs.One can easily get a smartphone with a well-tuned camera setup without spending much. However, one definitely needs to splurge to get a smartphone with a top-tier camera setup.Before we get going with the list of best camera smartphones of 2024, here are a few things to look for while considering one:Most phones have good primary cameras, but few offer a consistent experience across all lenses. Ideally, the ultra-wide and telephoto lenses should also have a high megapixel count. Besides megapixels, consider factors like aperture (wider is better) and OIS for stable images and videos.For a camera-focused smartphone, choose one with at least a triple camera setup, including a dedicated ultra-wide-angle lens and a telephoto lens.Branding can indicate a good camera setup, as some brands collaborate with camera legends like Zeiss, Hasselblad, and Leica. While some partnerships are merely for branding, others significantly enhance camera quality. However, smartphones from companies like Apple and Samsung, which independently tune their cameras, also offer exceptional performance.When seeking a camera-centric phone, consider both in-house and externally collaborated brands.When buying a camera-centric smartphone, consider the brand. iPhones excel in videography, Pixels are renowned for still images, and Galaxies offer vibrant colour reproduction. For natural depth of field, look for phones with large sensors and wide apertures.With that in mind, here are six camera-centric smartphones available in India worth considering in 2024, including a bonus option:People swear by their iPhone cameras, and the iPhone 15 Pro is no exception, featuring the brand’s first 5x optical zoom lens. It also includes a 48 MP primary sensor, a 12 MP ultra-wide lens, and a 12 MP telephoto lens. The iPhone 15 Pro Max, starting at Rs 1,59,900, is available both online and offline across the country. Additionally, it has a highly regarded 12 MP selfie camera.Samsung’s flagship camera approach differs from Apple’s, boasting a 200 MP primary sensor, 50 MP 5x periscope zoom, 10 MP 3x telephoto, and 12 MP ultra-wide lens. It can capture 200 MP images and supports 100x hybrid zoom. While the 5x telephoto zoom is considered a downgrade from the previous 10x optical zoom, the extra megapixels compensate for the reduced zoom range, making the 10x hybrid zoom nearly as good as the Galaxy S23 Ultra. The Galaxy S24 Ultra starts at Rs 1,29,999 and is available for less on e-commerce platforms.Vivo’s collaboration with Zeiss has yielded impressive results, with the Vivo X100 Pro (review) being one of the best smartphone cameras of 2024. It features a triple 50 MP camera setup, including a large 0.98-inch primary sensor with a Zeiss lens, capturing stunning images in various lighting conditions. A special lens coating helps reduce lens flare. Priced at Rs 89,999, it is more affordable than the other flagship options.For a camera-specific flagship smartphone, consider the Xiaomi 14 Ultra, Xiaomi’s best camera phone yet, made in collaboration with Leica. It features four 50 MP sensors, including a 1-inch primary sensor and two telephoto lenses with different focal lengths. Priced at Rs 99,999, it is Xiaomi’s most expensive phone in India.For variety, consider the OnePlus Open (review), the first OnePlus smartphone with a periscope zoom lens and arguably its best camera phone, nearly matching the OnePlus 12. Hasselblad has tuned the cameras, including a dedicated Hasselblad mode. Priced at Rs 139,999, it’s an excellent choice for a camera-centric foldable. Additionally, Vivo is launching its latest foldable in India, also featuring an impressive camera setup.This is a bonus, as Google Pixel smartphones are primarily known for their photography capabilities. The Pixel 8 Pro (review) is the best camera phone that Google has made till date. Compared to the previous Pixel smartphones, it has exclusive features, and the company is also working on adding capabilities like AI zoom enhancer.The list contains devices that are a bit different from one another, each catering to a different set of audiences, hope one of these devices will be able to cater to your specific camera needs."}
{"Title":"In a first, OpenAI removes influence ops ‘targeting’ Indian elections, BJP","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/openai-removes-influence-ops-targeting-indian-elections-bjp-9364204/","Content":"In a first, OpenAI – the company behind ChatGPT – said it disrupted a covert influence campaign originating in Israel that used its models to generate pro-Congress and anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) content and spread those online in a bid to disrupt the ongoing election process.OpenAI said that in May, this network used its AI models to generate “large quantities of short comments that were then posted across Telegram, X, Instagram and other sites”.As per a report released by the company on Thursday, a commercial company in Israel called ‘STOIC,’ which was generating content about the Gaza conflict, and to a lesser extent the Histadrut trade unions organisation in Israel and the Indian elections. The company said it had nicknamed the operation as “Zero Zeno”.OpenAI’s report, titled ‘AI and Covert Influence Operations: Latest Trends’ is a first of its kind from the company and offers a glimpse into how actors in cyberspace are using artificial intelligence (AI) in their efforts to manipulate the public. It also disrupted similar operations originating from China, Russia and Iran.The report immediately drew a reaction from the BJP, with Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar calling it a “dangerous threat to our democracy”. “It is absolutely clear and obvious that BJP was and is the target of influence operations, misinformation and foreign interference, being done by and/or on behalf of some Indian political parties,” he said on X.“This is a very dangerous threat to our democracy. It is clear vested interests in India and outside are clearly driving this and needs to be deeply scrutinised/investigated and exposed,” he added.The company said this operation targeted audiences in Canada, the United States and Israel with content in English and Hebrew. In early May, it began targeting audiences in India with English-language content as well, OpenAI said. The company said that it disrupted some of its activity focused on India’s elections in less than 24 hours after it began.“…the network began generating comments that focused on India, criticised the ruling BJP party and praised the opposition Congress party,” OpenAI said.OpenAI’s investigations, as per the company, showed that, while the actors behind these operations sought to generate content or increase productivity using its models, these campaigns did not appear to have “meaningfully increased their audience engagement or reach as a result of their use of our services”. Many accounts have already been disabled by Meta and X, so current engagement figures may not present the complete picture, it added.“Using the Breakout Scale to assess the impact of IO, which rates them on a scale of 1 (lowest) to 6 (highest), we would assess this as a Category 2 operation, marked by posting activity on multiple platforms and websites, but with no evidence of it being significantly amplified by people outside the network,” OpenAI said.The report surveys campaigns by threat actors that have used its products to further covert influence operations. The company defines such operations as “deceptive attempts to manipulate public opinion or influence political outcomes without revealing the true identity or intentions of the actors behind them”.“While we observed these threat actors using our models for a range of influence operations, they all attempted to deceive people about who they were or what they were trying to achieve,” OpenAI said.OpenAI said that in May, this network used its AI models to generate “large quantities of short comments that were then posted across Telegram, X, Instagram and other sites”."}
{"Title":"Spain’s data watchdog blocks two EU election tools from Meta’s Instagram, Facebook","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/tech-news-technology/spain-data-watchdog-blocks-eu-election-tool-meta-instagram-facebook-9363880/","Content":"Spain’s data protection watchdog AEPD has ordered the provisional suspension of two planned Meta products set to be deployed in the upcoming European election on its social media platforms Instagram and Facebook, it said on Friday.The tools, named “Election Day Information” (EDI) and “Voter Information Unit” (VIU), would potentially violate the Spanish data protection regulation (GDPR), AEPD said.“Our election tools have been expressly designed to respect users’ privacy and comply with the GDPR. While we disagree with the AEPD’s assessment in this case, we have cooperated with their request,” a Meta spokesperson told Reuters.According to the agency, Meta has said it intends that all eligible Instagram and Facebook users in the European Union will receive notifications from VIU and EDI reminding them to vote.“The data processing envisaged by Meta would be contrary to Spanish data protection regulation and would, at the very least, breach the data protection principles of lawfulness, data minimisation and limitation of the retention period,” the AEPD said in a statement.It added that Meta was selecting eligible voters based on the data contained in users’ profiles about their city of residence, as well as their IP addresses. But the only condition to be allowed to vote in the European election is being an adult national of any of the EU’s member states.The AEPD said this data treatment was “unnecessary, disproportionate and excessive” because it left out EU citizens living abroad and targeted citizens of non-EU countries who are in Europe.The agency added that collecting data on users’ ages was not justified, as there was no reliable mechanism to verify their self-reported ages, and the treatment of interaction data was “totally disproportionate in relation to the supposed purpose of informing about the elections”.The watchdog said Meta had not justified the need for storing the data after the election, which “reveals an additional purpose for the processing operation”."}
{"Title":"10 easy tips to keep your iPhone battery running longer","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/techook/10-easy-tips-to-keep-your-iphone-battery-running-longer-9361450/","Content":"Heat is the one of the reasons why electronics and batteries degrade over time. While the best way to keep your battery healthy is to avoid it from prolonged exposure to heat, it might not be possible this summer. If you want to keep your iPhone battery health in a good shape, here are 10 tips that might help.Apart from keeping your phone cool, minimising charge cycles is one of the best ways to keep your battery healthy. While charging often cannot be avoided, fully charge your battery whenever possible and don't let it go below 20 per cent.Apple has some useful built-in features that can you help you iPhone's battery life. One of them is the 'Charging Optimization' functionality, which you can set to 'Optimized Battery Charging' to prolonged your battery life. It can be found in the 'Battery' in the phone's 'Settings' app.Your iPhone gets updates about things like weather and email in the background, but depending on the frequency of updates, the functionality might eat up your battery. If you don't mind getting notifications late, consider setting 'Background App Refresh' to off. Rest assured, disabling the feature won't stop notifications from apps like WhatsApp.Wireless charging may be standard on most premium phones, but the technology is slower and inefficient compared to standard wired charging. Also, it often makes phones heat up. So unless you have no option, make sure you use a charging cable instead of MagSafe whenever possible.Charging also generates a lot of heat, and if you are someone who often plays games on their phone while charging, it may quickly increase the temperature of the device and accelerate battery degradation. While you can use apps and check messages while charging, avoid playing video games while charging to retain your battery health.Apple says the iPhone is designed to perform in a wide range of temperatures, but you should not charge the phone if you are in a very hot or cold place. While charging the device in extremely hot temperatures might permanently damage the battery and reduce the capacity, if you are in a very cold place, the battery life may decrease temporarily.If you are planning to ditch your iPhone for a few months, make sure you charge the device to around 50 per cent before putting it away. If you don't do so, the battery may fall into a deep discharge state, which may ultimately prevent it from holding a charge. Also, if you charge it fully, the battery is bound to lose some capacity.If your iPhone is getting hot when charging, make sure you remove the case. Since heat is a battery's worst enemy, charging your phone with a case on in a hot room may degrade the battery life faster than it normally does.Apple releases new updates for iOS every now and then. Apart from offering new features and optimising device performance, these updates may also help extend your battery life. If you haven't updated your iPhone in a while, open the Settings app on your phone, head over to the General section and download and install the latest iOS update from the 'Software Update' section.Most of us have installed some apps that we barely use. If you are in the same situation, make sure you disable notifications for these apps if you don't need updates since it will use some juice in the background. "}
{"Title":"OpenAI unveils ChatGPT Edu to bring AI responsibly to university campuses","URL":"https://indianexpress.com/article/technology/artificial-intelligence/openai-unveils-chatgpt-edu-ai-for-universities-9363238/","Content":"Even as GPT-4o continues to stun the world with its revolutionary capabilities, OpenAI has come out with yet another model – ChatGPT Edu. This has been introduced as an affordable offering for universities to bring AI to campus responsibly.“We’re announcing ChatGPT Edu, a version of ChatGPT built for universities to responsibly deploy AI to students, faculty, researchers, and campus operations,” OpenAI said in its website announcing the new model. ChatGPT Edu is powered by GPT-4o and can reason across text and vision and use advanced tools such as data analysis. OpenAI has said that the new offering includes enterprise-level security and controls and is affordable for educational institutions. The Sam Altman-led AI startup said the new model has been built following the success stories of the University of Oxford, Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, University of Texas at Austin, Arizona State University, Columbia University in the City of New York in integrating ChatGPT Enterprise. When it comes to features, OpenAI has listed a slew of them on its website. Users of ChatGPT Edu will get access to GPT-4o, the company’s flagship model that excels in text interpretation, coding, and mathematics. Users will be able to harness advanced capabilities such as data analytics, web browsing, and document summarisation. The new model will also offer the ability to build GPTs, custom versions of ChatGPT, and share them within the university workspaces. ChatGPT Edu comes with significantly higher message limits than the free version of ChatGPT Improved language capabilities across quality and speed, with over 50 languages supported. When it comes to security, the new model is claimed to have robust security, data privacy, and administrative controls such as group permissions, SSO, SCIM, and GPT management. OpenAI has also said that all the conversations and data from ChatGPT Edu will not be used to train OpenAI Models. Ever since its launch, ChatGPT has been utilised on campuses for personalised teaching, resume reviews, grant application writing, and grading assistance. At Columbia University, Professor Nabila El-Bassel’s team uses a GPT to analyse data for overdose intervention strategies, drastically reducing research time. At Wharton, professor Ethan Mollick’s students use ChatGPT for reflective assignments, enhancing their learning. Similarly, at Arizona State University, assistant professor Christiane Reves is developing a GPT for German language practice, providing tailored feedback and saving faculty assessment time. These initiatives demonstrate innovative applications of AI to support students, faculty, and researchers in various academic tasks. These use cases show the innovative application of AI to support students, faculty, and researchers in various academic activities. "}
